The previous exercise is an example of
how companies try to group customers or
stores.
Some of you maybe familiar withy another
name for this which is called binning.
They want to achieve the benefits of
both standardization and localization.
They typically do this by using one or
maybe two variables or attributes.
These are separated into groups using
dividing lines determined by datapoints,
that make sense for
that specific variable.
This is usually the case because they're
using Excel, where the main method is to
sort on the variable, and
then manually draw the dividing lines.
I've taken that same set of data and
created my three segments.
As you can see here, the stores
are grouped by sales volumes into big,
medium, and little.
The divisions are fairly arbitrary.
And how you divided up the list, may be
different from how I divided them up.
But what happens if you add
another variable into the mix?
Say, the actual square
footage of the store.
Take a look at the next data set,
squarefeet.csv.
It is the same as the first data set,
except we have added a field for
the number of square feet in the store.
Try to re-segment the stores
using both variables.
Is store number 3 still a small store?
Or is it really a big store that is
just underperforming compared to all
the other 40,000 square foot stores?
Now, look at the final file,
hours opened dot csv.
We've added another field
called hours opened.
And that has the daily hours when
the stores are opened for business.
Again, try to re-segment the stores
using all three variables.
As you begin to see, it becomes very
difficult to define three specific
segments that could be categorized
as big, medium, and little stores.
If the purpose of the segmentation
is to provide a way for
management to evaluate the stores
against others in their segment.
You may start questioning what
really defines the segment.
Should store number 5 and
store number 8 be compared against each
other since they're both open 24 hours?
But yet, store number 8 is one-fourth
the actual size of number 5?
How about store number three?
It is the same size as store number
five, and open most of the day, but
has way less in sales.
Now, imagine what would happen if you
wanted to create the groups using say,
15 or 20 variables.
Such as demographics around the store,
or how close competitors' stores
are to each specific store.
I'm sure, you'd agree that it
would become much more complex.